The film Encanto (2021), loaded with Latin rhythms, is an ode to Colombian culture; its food, its music, its traditions... 
A musical in which bright colours, salsa, love and family reign. Directed by Byron Smith, Jared Bush and Charise Castro Smith -the script is by the latter two-, 
the icing on the cake is provided by Lin-Manuel Miranda; eight songs signed by the creator of the musical Hamilton, accompanied by a soundtrack by Germain Franco, 
also composer of the music for Coco. Undoubtedly, a film that does not disappoint and that sends a beautiful message of unity to the rhythm of reggaeton and cumbia.

The Disney film tells the story of the Madrigals, an exceptional and unique family, as the members of their family have magical powers. 
The Madrigals live hidden in the mountains, in a small town called Encanto, and are in charge of looking after the safety of its inhabitants. 
Everyone in the family has some kind of gift, from controlling the weather, to super strength, to being able to heal with food; Mirabel, however, has none. 
Magic has somehow passed Mirabel by, and as she grows up she wants to be useful in a family where everyone has a power. 
"With or without a gift, I am as special as the rest of my family," she says.
But soon all will not be well for this family whose magic was built on tragedy. 
Cracks, literally, appear in the foundation of their home and their stern matriarch, Grandmother Alma, worries quietly that her magic may be failing. 
It is up to Mirabel to investigate what is happening and save the family, and when the source of those powers begins to be in danger, 
she will not hesitate to do whatever it takes to save the town and her family, for she is convinced that she is the only one who can do it, 
even without any special gift.



La película Encanto (2021), cargada de ritmos latinos, es una oda a la cultura colombiana; su comida, su música, sus tradiciones… 
Un musical en el que imperan los colores vivos, la salsa, el amor y la familia. Dirigida por Byron Smith, Jared Bush y Charise Castro Smith -el guión corre a cargo 
de los dos últimos-, la guinda del pastel la pone Lin-Manuel Miranda; ocho canciones firmadas por el creador del musical Hamilton, 
acompañadas por una banda sonora a manos de Germain Franco, 
compositor también de la música para Coco. Sin duda, una cinta que no defrauda y que lanza un bonito mensaje de unión a ritmo de reguetón y cumbia.

La película de Disney narra la historia de Los Madrigal, una familia excepcional y singular, pues los miembros de su familia tienen poderes mágicos. 
Los Madrigal viven escondidos en las montañas, en un pequeño pueblo llamado Encanto, y se encargan de cuidar y velar por la seguridad de sus habitantes. 
Todos en la familia poseen algún tipo de don, desde controlar el tiempo, súper fuerza o poder curar con alimentos; 
sin embargo, Mirabel, no posee ninguno, la magia de alguna manera ha pasado por alto a Mirabel quien a medida que crece quiere ser útil en una familia 
en la que todos los integrantes tienen un poder. “Con o sin don, soy tan especial como el resto de mi familia”, dice.
Pero pronto no todo estará bien para esta familia cuya magia se basó en la tragedia. Las grietas, literalmente, 
aparecen en los cimientos de su casa y su severa matriarca, la abuela Alma, se preocupa en silencio de que su magia pueda estar fallando. 
Depende de Mirabel investigar qué está pasando y salvar a la familia.Cuando la fuente de esos poderes empieza a correr peligro, 
la joven no dudará en hacer todo lo posible por salvar al pueblo y a su familia, pues está convencida de que es la única que podrá hacerlo, 
aún sin ningún don especial.
